---
layout: post
title:  "Perks of Learning to Code"
date:   2018-05-29 22:00:45
---
As an undergrad, I studied International Relations and German. Needless to say, I had zero interest in studying or making a career of any “technical” subject matter. A month prior to graduating, Twitter co-founder Biz Stone held a talk on campus and discussed his inadvertent career in tech. Biz spoke about how he went from designing book covers in a small design shop in Massachusetts to building websites for his employer (and others.)  During his talk, I was handed a flyer for a coding bootcamp. Between the buzz in room generated by Biz’s engaging speech and having a ‘ticket in hand’ from MakerSquare (now HackReactor)- I was hooked! It was time to start coding

I supplemented my studies with free online resources such as [codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com) and [freeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org). However, as much as I pride myself on being an autodidact, when it comes to learning languages – learning JavaScript and Object Oriented Programming was a struggle for me.
I needed something more immersive.  After much research, I chose a program in Austin from General Assembly. I took out a loan and dedicated myself to learning full-stack web development with twenty other fantastic individuals, many of whom became good friends and even work colleagues of mine.  
This brings me to the perks of learning how to code, there are plenty, but from my perspective these three are so the top benefits of adding coding to your skillset:

Critical Thinking - Programming, irrespective of which language you use, requires you to think critically. There are many things to take into consideration when building an app/website, from deciding what language/framework to utilize, to knowing which API’s and services to keep things working properly. Thinking things through with great detail is something I’m grateful to have picked up as a developer
A Deep Appreciation for Tech - Nothing makes you appreciate that we are indeed standing on the shoulders of giants more than when you are building a website or app from scratch.
The Joy of Creating - Much like kids who play Minecraft, I too enjoy building worlds with the tools at my disposal. I still remember my first tutorials on HTML and CSS and building my first web pages; the feeling was intoxicating! Write a few lines of code in my editor, save the file, hit refresh, and voila there’s something on my screen!

It’s empowering to be able to use creativity in conjunction with technical prowess to build things.
Currently, I work as an Implementation Engineer. Although I did pursue development as a career path, it’s important to note that coding is a skill that can prove a valuable resume builder and is a great investment in your own ‘human capital’ even if you don’t pursue it as a formal career.

In my free time, I am also an organizer for the Austin chapter of the non-profit, [Women who Code](https://www.womenwhocode.com/). Women Who Code provides women with learning resources and mentorship opportunities.
